README.md, before:

# kleio README

MHK Time Link is a web application that manages databases for micro-historical and genealogical research. It allows source-oriented data input, using Manfred Thaller Kleio notation, record linking and network analysis. The development of MHK is coordinated by Joaquim Carvalho, of the University of Coimbra, Portugal.

This extension adds support for the Kleio notation in Visual Studio Code editor, including Syntax Highlighting, Snippet completion and Kleio Files management (error/warning displaying, translation status filtering, etc).

## Install Extension in Visual Studio Code (VS Code)
1. Download VS Code extension from [repository](https://github.com/time-link/timelink-vscode/raw/master/builds/kleio-1.0.0.vsix)
2. Select extensions on VS Code left toolbar
3. Click "More actions" (three dots) and select install from VSIX

## Features

* Syntax Highlighting
* Snippet completion for baptism acts (actos de baptismo).

## Requirements

This bundle requires Visual Studio Code with extensions support.

## Development Notes

### Adding New Features

The grammar was converted from TextMate using the yo code extension generator. The included Time Link bundle (Time Link.tmbundle) can be used to easily make changes to the TextMate grammar, and then convert the bundle to a VSCode extension.

### Create a package:
#### Create a package using vsce (The Visual Studio Code Extension Manager)

Install typescript and extension dependencies:

```console
foo@bar:~$ npm install -g typescript
foo@bar:~$ npm install -g vsce
foo@bar:~$ cd timelink-vscode
user@timelink-vscode:~$ npm install
```

Generate the package:

```console
foo@bar:~$ cd timelink-vscode
user@timelink-vscode:~$ vsce package
user@timelink-vscode:~$ code --install-extension kleio-x.x.vsix
```

Publish to Marketplace Visualstudio:

```console
foo@bar:~$ cd timelink-vscode
foo@bar:~$ vsce publish
```
More info at https://code.visualstudio.com/api/working-with-extensions/publishing-extension

#### Convert TextMate bundle features using [Yeoman](https://yeoman.io/learning/) code extension generator:

```console
foo@bar:~$ yo code
```

**Select "New Language Support"**
Input the "URL or file to import" (e.g. 'TimeLink.tmbundle/Syntaxes/Kleio.tmLanguage')
Accept the defaults

**Select "New Code Snippets"**
Input the "URL or file to import" (e.g. 'TimeLink.tmbundle/Snippets')
Accept the defaults

#### Assign keybindings to snippets
Keymaps from TextMate Bundles (Key Equivalent) don't migrate to VS Code.
Keybindings must be added manually to package.json file to 'keybindings' section where 'name' is the snippet name:

```
"key": "ctrl+alt+k",
"mac": "shift+cmd+k",
"command": "editor.action.insertSnippet",
"when": "editorTextFocus",
"args": {
    "langId": "kleio",
    "name": "kleio"
}
```

## Known Issues

## Release Notes

### 1.0.0
Feature complete release.
Only shows .cli files in explorer (with option to enable showing of all files)

### 0.9.8 (RC)
Filter by status now loads status recursively for each folder at root.
File diagnostics (error/warning) loaded all at once when folder is expanded.
Show feedback when getting status from kleio server.

### 0.9.5
Fixes the update of files when a file with error finishes translating

### 0.9.4
Changes on filter by kleio status views.

### 0.9.3
Fixes files update when translation status changes or user requests a refresh
Other bug fixes

### 0.9.2
Fixes Translation Service call when running the extension in Windows.

### 0.9.1
Adds reload button to extension views (translation needed, with error, etc).
Fixes Kleio Translation Service calls.
Fixes in syntax highlight.

### 0.9.0
Load and display file status from Kleio Server (when running locally).
Start file translation by right click on .cli files (and with CMD/CTRL + SHIFT + T).
Custom icon for .cli files.
Add views showing files grouped by status (Translation Needed, With Errors, With Warnings, Ready for Import).
Syntax highlighting now highlights the first token after the $ separator.
Bug fixes and code cleanup.

### 0.4.2
### 0.4.1

Calls Translation service on file save. Loads cli diagnostic errors when an .err file is created (when translation finishes).

### 0.4.0

Loads errors and warnings from .rpt files and displays in Problems pane. Includes Completion Provider (work in progress).

### 0.3.0

Adds Time Link extension to VSCode View Container. Includes 'Time Link File Explorer' tree view and 'Kleio Files Status' view (work in progress).

### 0.2.0

Includes hover information support, including update from documentation server (no real information yet).

### 0.1.0

This version completes support for snippet completion (baptismf, casamentof, obitof, escrituras).
Includes basic hover information (static for now).

### 0.0.2

This version adds support for basic snippet completion (baptism acts only).

### 0.0.1

Very initial release of Time Link extension for VSCode. Includes syntax highlighting.

Commit message:

Several optimisations in kleio status updates: - one kleio server request and filtering on client side - request changes for the current workspace directory only - request status updates for the directory of the translated cli

README.md, after:

# kleio README

MHK Time Link is a web application that manages databases for micro-historical and genealogical research. It allows source-oriented data input, using Manfred Thaller Kleio notation, record linking and network analysis. The development of MHK is coordinated by Joaquim Carvalho, of the University of Coimbra, Portugal.

This extension adds support for the Kleio notation in Visual Studio Code editor, including Syntax Highlighting, Snippet completion and Kleio Files management (error/warning displaying, translation status filtering, etc).

## Install the extension manually in Visual Studio Code (VS Code)

We recommend installing the extension from the Visual Studio Marketplace. Extensions that you download from the Visual Studio Marketplace are automatically updated by default.

1. Download the latest version of the extension from [repository](https://github.com/time-link/timelink-vscode/raw/master/builds/)
2. Select extensions on VS Code left toolbar
3. Click "More actions" (three dots) and select install from VSIX

## Features

* Syntax Highlighting
* Snippet completion for baptism acts (actos de baptismo).

## Requirements

This bundle requires Visual Studio Code with extensions support.

## Development Notes

### Adding New Features

The grammar was converted from TextMate using the yo code extension generator. The included Time Link bundle (Time Link.tmbundle) can be used to easily make changes to the TextMate grammar, and then convert the bundle to a VSCode extension.

### Create a package:
#### Create a package using vsce (The Visual Studio Code Extension Manager)

Install typescript and extension dependencies:

```console
foo@bar:~$ npm install -g typescript
foo@bar:~$ npm install -g vsce
foo@bar:~$ cd timelink-vscode
user@timelink-vscode:~$ npm install
```

Generate the package:

```console
foo@bar:~$ cd timelink-vscode
user@timelink-vscode:~$ vsce package
user@timelink-vscode:~$ code --install-extension kleio-x.x.vsix
```

Publish to Marketplace Visualstudio:

```console
foo@bar:~$ cd timelink-vscode
foo@bar:~$ vsce publish
```
More info at https://code.visualstudio.com/api/working-with-extensions/publishing-extension

#### Convert TextMate bundle features using [Yeoman](https://yeoman.io/learning/) code extension generator:

```console
foo@bar:~$ yo code
```

**Select "New Language Support"**
Input the "URL or file to import" (e.g. 'TimeLink.tmbundle/Syntaxes/Kleio.tmLanguage')
Accept the defaults

**Select "New Code Snippets"**
Input the "URL or file to import" (e.g. 'TimeLink.tmbundle/Snippets')
Accept the defaults

#### Assign keybindings to snippets
Keymaps from TextMate Bundles (Key Equivalent) don't migrate to VS Code.
Keybindings must be added manually to package.json file to 'keybindings' section where 'name' is the snippet name:

```
"key": "ctrl+alt+k",
"mac": "shift+cmd+k",
"command": "editor.action.insertSnippet",
"when": "editorTextFocus",
"args": {
    "langId": "kleio",
    "name": "kleio"
}
```

## Known Issues

## Release Notes

### 1.0.1
Several optimisations in kleio status updates

### 1.0.0
Feature complete release.
Only presents .cli files in explorer (with an option to enable listing of all files)

### 0.9.8 (RC)
Filter by status now loads status recursively for each folder at root.
File diagnostics (error/warning) loaded all at once when folder is expanded.
Show feedback when getting status from kleio server.

### 0.9.5
Fixes the update of files when a file with error finishes translating

### 0.9.4
Changes on filter by kleio status views.

### 0.9.3
Fixes files update when translation status changes or user requests a refresh
Other bug fixes

### 0.9.2
Fixes Translation Service call when running the extension in Windows.

### 0.9.1
Adds reload button to extension views (translation needed, with error, etc).
Fixes Kleio Translation Service calls.
Fixes in syntax highlight.

### 0.9.0
Load and display file status from Kleio Server (when running locally).
Start file translation by right click on .cli files (and with CMD/CTRL + SHIFT + T).
Custom icon for .cli files.
Add views showing files grouped by status (Translation Needed, With Errors, With Warnings, Ready for Import).
Syntax highlighting now highlights the first token after the $ separator.
Bug fixes and code cleanup.

### 0.4.2
### 0.4.1

Calls Translation service on file save. Loads cli diagnostic errors when an .err file is created (when translation finishes).

### 0.4.0

Loads errors and warnings from .rpt files and displays in Problems pane. Includes Completion Provider (work in progress).

### 0.3.0

Adds Time Link extension to VSCode View Container. Includes 'Time Link File Explorer' tree view and 'Kleio Files Status' view (work in progress).

### 0.2.0

Includes hover information support, including update from documentation server (no real information yet).

### 0.1.0

This version completes support for snippet completion (baptismf, casamentof, obitof, escrituras).
Includes basic hover information (static for now).

### 0.0.2

This version adds support for basic snippet completion (baptism acts only).

### 0.0.1

Very initial release of Time Link extension for VSCode. Includes syntax highlighting.
